# credit-risk-classification
 Module 20 Challenge
<h2>Overview of the Analysis</h2>
The purpose of this activity is to train and evaluate machine learning models based on loan risk. The dataset used is historical lending activity from a peer-to-peer lending services company to build a model that can identify the creditworthiness of borrowers. Features used i the data set to prdict loan status are are loan size, interest rate, borrower income, debt to income ratio, number of accounts, derogatory marks and total debt.<br>
The machine learning process to perform the analysis:<br><ul><li>Split the data into Training and Testing Sets</li><li>Create label sets and feature DataFrames from the provided dataset.</li><li>Create logistic regression model and dit to original data.</li><li>Make predictions on test data by testing feature data and fitting the model.</li><li>Evaluate model perforamnce by calculating accuracy scores, confusion matrix and classification report.</li></ul>
RandomOverSampler was then used to reduce the imbalances (overweighed towards healthy loans) and then LogisticRegression applied to oversampled data. 
<h2>Results</h2>
<h3>Machine Learning Model: Original Data - Logistic Regression</h3><ul><li>Overall the model predicted both the healthy and high-risk loans well with a balanced accuracy score of 96.79%.</li><li>The precision score 1.00 which shows that the model correctly predicted 100% of the healthy loans and a precision score of 0.84, which shows that the model predicted 84% of the high-risk loans.The precision is a reflection of the models ability to predicit loan status positive classifications are positive.</li><li>The recall score is a reflection of the models ability to predict the loan status negative classifications are negative. The recall score for healthy loans was 99% and 94% for high risk loans.</li></ul>
<h3>Machine Learning Model: RandomOverSampler - Logisitic Regression</h3><ul><li>Overall the model predicted both the healthy and high-risk loans well and achieved a higher balanced accuracy score of 99.35%.</li><li>The model, similar to the original, correctly predicted 100% of the healthy loans with a precision score of 1.00 and predicted 84% of the high-risk loans.</li><li>The model's recall score for healthy loans was the same at 99%, but we see an increase to 99% for high-risk classification.</li></ul>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<ul><li>The random over sampled model performas with higher balanced accuracy score compared the model performed on the original data.</li><li>Correct classification of loans was achieved with the randome over sampled data with higher recall scores, especially for the high-risk loans.</li><li>It is important for lending service companies to correctly classify loan status, especially those high-risk, to reducing the chances of loans defaulting and increase profitability by predicting creditworthiness.</li></ul>
